---
layout: default
---

# Mind and Imagery: Logical Thinking, Mathematical Thinking, Visual Thinking
If such an abstract form (mental imagery) is not language, then could it be some sort of image? This was an intriguing hypothesis. First, it turns out that human visual information is more cognitively distorted than expected. Humans do not perceive external physical information exactly as it is. Interestingly, however, we can [pattern this information](https://graybox.co/knowledge/blog/gestalt-principles-applied-to-design), which has had a significant impact on modern and contemporary art theories ([Gestalt principle](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1576669)). There is also the curious fact that [mathematicians who lose their sight](https://www.ams.org/notices/200210/comm-morin.pdf) often excel in topology. The pure form of thought for these mathematicians, who do not obtain physical visual information, seems to depend heavily on *shapes.* In other words, at the most basic level, the human mind likely resembles a topological structure rather than a physical entity with units like metric or volume.
Another point to consider is that the relationship between imagery and meaning is surprisingly complex. Images have three categories, and how the link between the two is forged determines whether they become a picture, a symbol, or a sign. On a related note, we must consider the relationship between logic and language. What is logic? After some contemplation, I believe *a set of systematic rules or a collection thereof* might be the closest definition. The concept of logic can be found in all intellectual activities carried out in language. In the case of mathematical logic, the field initially aimed to represent such logic with formal symbols to refine it to a high degree. Therefore, formal symbols used in analysis, among other fields, are akin to hieroglyphics—each minimum unit can encapsulate meaning. Because of this characteristic, formal symbolic notations can act as symbols or as signs depending on the situation. This is also discussed as an example of naive analogy in Surfaces and Essences, which hints at the potential for formal symbols to form visual translations. As mentioned in the link above, some blind mathematicians major in analysis and claim that they can visualize formulas like looking at pictures.
Coincidentally, a similar observation is made in art theory. In Rudolf Arnheim's Visual Thinking, an introductory perspective is addressed regarding the relationship between internally evoked mental imagery and visual imagery acquired externally. However, this does not mean that meaning is imagery. Just as language greatly influences human consciousness, imagery also significantly affects consciousness. However, that does not mean that human mental imagery is imagery itself.

<div class="pagination">
  <a href="{{ 'P/mind/mind_content.html' | relative_url }}" class="prev-button">Previous</a>
</div>