---
layout: default
---

# Where Does Meaning Reside?
In Douglas Hofstadter's *Gödel, Escher, Bach*, this question is traced back to another question: "Can we say that meaning is inherent in a message, or is meaning always created by the interaction between the message and a mind or mechanism?"
Conscious activity can be easily understood as analogous to listening to music. Consider the following:
- Music: Information composed of [sound].
- Record: Stores information corresponding to [music]. This information can be extracted using the [groove pattern] on the surface of the record. (Information storage medium)
- Turntable: Converts the grooves on the [record] into [sound]. In other words, it decodes the information stored in the record and realizes it physically. (Information realization medium)

Based on this structure, listening to music can be viewed as follows: First, we can say that there is a message, [music]. To understand what this message *means,* one must *decode* the information, and the surface of the record, which *contains* this music, is engraved with grooves. If a thin, pointed object is rubbed against the record's surface, one can *extract* sound information from the groove patterns. In other words, there is an isomorphism between the [groove pattern] and the [sound]. This isomorphism allows us to physically realize the music.
If we apply this perspective to conscious activities—like speech production—then:
- Mind: Information composed of [meaning].
- Brain: Stores information corresponding to the [mind]. This information can be extracted using [A] in the brain. (Information storage medium)
- Body's speech organ: Converts [A] in the [brain] into [sound]. In other words, it decodes the information in the brain and realizes it physically. (Information realization medium)

First, there is a message, the [mind], and there is a storage medium, the [brain], that contains it. Observing the act of speaking, we can say that the body acts as a realization medium that decodes the information. Therefore, as with the isomorphism between [groove pattern] and [sound], it is necessary to find [A—some pattern that projects the mind] in the brain that can be equated with [meaning].
Can we find a concept that can be reduced to a unit of *consciousness*? Such a line of thinking has been the approach of ToC so far. However, if *consciousness* doesn't have any units, then the initial approach itself might have been flawed... because consciousness may not be a *substance* or *state* but rather *the very form itself.*

<div class="pagination">
  <a href="{{ 'P/mind/mind_content.html' | relative_url }}" class="prev-button">Previous</a>
</div>