---
layout: default
---

# Physics and Philosophy
There is an interesting discussion linked to idealization in *Physics and Philosophy*. At least if such idealization is part of the human language about nature, the structure of science essentially becomes analogous to the form of art. Though the clarity of mathematics cannot strictly embody the formal rules that define the structure of art, the foundational elements of pure art are indeed closely intertwined with the aesthetics of mathematics. For instance, in Rudolf Arnheim's Art and Visual Perception, a study of principles like balance, symmetry, form, space, and movement reveals the mathematical and psychological foundations underpinning artistic composition. However, it seems that appreciating art demands a level of consciousness distinct from, and perhaps far removed from, the foundational disciplines that are more rigid and systematized.
The movements of art, aimed at comprehending reality, undergo an extended process of idealization similar to that of science. Yet unlike science, which often seems to pursue something permanent over an extended period, an individual work of art may appear devoid of an enduring pursuit. Scientific discoveries are sometimes incidental or achieved regardless of the identity of the researcher, but artistic movements are enduring only for those artists who participate in them. The paintings of Da Vinci, the symphonies of Beethoven, the plays of Shakespeare—none of these could have been invented or created by anyone other than their respective creators. This characteristic suggests that art cannot be entirely captured within a standardized set of norms.
However, art emerges from the interaction between the artist and the spirit of the times—Zeitgeist—which, intriguingly, might be independent of the actual historical period. The forms of a particular movement are eventually realized in the works of artists who can represent these elements in an understandable way. From this perspective, the methodologies of art and science do not seem so different after all. Both science and art are committed to developing a framework for interpreting aspects of reality over several centuries.
Of course, not all systems share the same rules. While something as grand as Peano’s axioms might underpin basic mathematical systems, the norms for things like game theory or chaotic sculptural works might belong to a more complex, higher-level system. This distinction makes interpreting such systems even more challenging. The domain of art lies at such a high level that explicit explanations are often impossible. Take, for instance, René Magritte’s The Two Mysteries, which depicts a pipe. Is it a pipe or not? Is it merely an image of a pipe, or does neither the pipe nor its representation truly exist? It challenges us with metaphysical imagination about what is a representation and what is not. Yet, when confronted with such a work, we don’t necessarily perceive a clear structure; instead, we often experience an intuitive feeling of something profound—something that even the artist might struggle to explain.
In Looking at the World Through an Artist’s Eye, this phenomenon is linked to representation. "How do artists draw? Is there some unique ability in the way artists see the world?" This curiosity can be succinctly summarized by explaining S. Vogt's research on visual perception. What is the most effective way to improve drawing skills for people who are not good at drawing in a short period? The answer is to teach them not to *conceptualize* the object being drawn but to *represent* it. For example, when drawing an apple, focusing not on identifying it as an apple but on the lines, shades, shapes, and contours visible in the image of the apple allows for more realistic and three-dimensional drawings. Representation shines especially when the concept of the object being drawn is abstract. When trying to express a metaphysical subject that cannot be seen, we often bring together and reconfigure images from a multitude of experiences acquired throughout our lives into a two-dimensional form.
The difference between an artist and a non-artist lies in how they view the world. Artists tend to observe the overall scenery, while non-artists focus on individual objects. This suggests that non-artists conceptualize images, whereas artists represent them—attending to things like color or contour. Consequently, artists, by perceiving the world more directly—as a collection of forms and colors—can break away from existing patterns of behavior to draw what they see.

<div class="pagination">
  <a href="{{ 'P/mind/mind_content.html' | relative_url }}" class="prev-button">Previous</a>
</div>